# Project Proposal

Project Partner: Jordan Doorlag

I have only talked about the actual project for just a few minutes with him, but he had the idea of creating a chatroom in which you can upload files, which I agreed would be in the scope of this assignment. There would not be a login - users would be prompted to create a username on entrance to the SPA, and then they would have the permissions to start sending messages and uploading files, which can then be downloaded by other users. This would basically be a quicker way to send data than emailing. With emailing, you must specify who receives your email, and go through the routine of creating and sending it. With this chatroom application, you can immediately broadcast to everyone what you have to say, and what data you want to get to people. This chatroom can be specified in many, many ways. The first that comes to mind for me would be a “bird watcher’s chatroom” where they can post their stats from their latest outings and any pictures that they might have captured. Another would be a group of scientists working in a lab. They might have just recorded an entire spreadsheet of data, and another scientist wants the data to graph it in R. The data can then be uploaded to the chatroom, and it would be accessible to their entire lab. I realize that this is pretty open and still very crude, but I want to leave it open so that Jordan and I have more time to discuss the possible outcomes that this file-uploading chatroom could have.

From a technical standpoint, we hope to allow the user to use a file-upload interface, or (ideally) drag-and-drop the file they wish to share onto the page. This would then be converted into the BSON format (or similar) and sent to our server, which would then store it in the database. Clicking on a file in the chat log would prompt the user to download it (or maybe display it if it's an image). We would also like to store the user's name as a cookie, so that they don't need to re-enter it every time they reload the page.
